# Analysis of a similarity network of Tc-mar transposon copies

## Abstract
A similarity network of Tc-mar transposon sequences was acquired from (.......) Various properties of the network were analyzed, including ..... Metrics relating to such properties allow for additional quantitative analysis of lineages than was previously available, and this similarity network of transposons is a perfect example. 

## Motivation
It has recently been proposed that biological lineages exist in a nested or multigenerational state, however, testing this hypothesis is a difficult endeaver. (....) Transposons offer a promising model in which to study nested lineages, as transposon lineages are nested within organismal lineages and identifying large populations of transposons only requires a whole-genome sequence. Phylogenies of transposons can be produced by comparing transposon copies in whole genome sequences, however, many families of transposons have high mutation rates and produced phylogenies may suffer from low resolution. By constructing networks of transposons based on each copy's sequence similarity, and subsequntly analyzing such similarity networks, hypotheses about transposon lineages can still be tested without assuming a phylogeny. This approach is taken 

## Methods 
The file, 'SSN_mc476_edgelist.csv,' was downloaded from the GitHub repo affiliated with Schneider et al. (2021) This network was chosen for the simple reason that it was the only network uploaded to the GitHub that included the locations of edges in the network. Other network-related files included node names and various metrics calculated for each node, along with the transposon sequences that were analyzed to produce all of the networks, however, producing networks from these files would have required extensive computation on my behalf (likely at least a several-day long BLAST!.) Regardless, this network is a specific cluster (cluster mc476) from  the primary network in Schneider et al. and analysis of said larger network could be done in a similar manner as the mc476 cluster is analyzed here. These networks were generated by Scheneider et. al by identifying the transposon content of a variety of eukaryotic genomes, producing concensus sequenses of transposon copies (each consensus sequence becomes a node on the network), BLASTing all transposon consensus sequences across all other transposon consensus sequences, then drawing an edge with a weight corresponding to BLAST's outputted bitscore if the bitscore was greater than a specific threshold (I believe 10e−30.) Additionally, transposon copies within the rbc-1 domain were removed, specifically to produce the smaller mc476 network (again, corresponding to cluster mc476.) 

For this project, I calculated a variety of metrics of both the network with weighted edges and the network without weighted edges, then these metrics were subsequently analyzed. For the unweighted network, these include closeness centrality, degree distribution, edge_betweeness, average neighbor degree, and clustering coefficient. For the weighted network, these include..... 

## Results



## Discussion 

## References

